
!!! warning "AI-Translated Page"

      This page was translated using artificial intelligence (AI). The content may contain inaccuracies or misinterpretations. For critical or official use, please consult the site [administrator](mailto:mcstu.inpe@gmail.com) to confirm the information.


# October 13, 2022

## MINUTES 002/2022 - Revision 002

![type:video](https://youtube.com/embed/OYq1sglZH_4)


Meeting of the Scientific Committee of the Ocean, Land Surface, and
Atmosphere Forecasting Model. At 3:00 pm on October 13, 2022,
representatives of
[INPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br)
(National Institute for Space Research),
[INMET](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.inmet.gov.br/)
(National Institute of Meteorology),
[UFCG](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.ufcg.edu.br/)
(Federal University of Campina Grande),
[CENSIPAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/censipam/pt-br)
(Management and Operational Center of the Amazon Protection System),
[USP](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www5.usp.br/)
(University of São Paulo),
[LNCC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/lncc/pt-br)
(National Laboratory for Scientific Computing),
[UFMS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ufms.br/)
(Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul),
[FAB](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.fab.mil.br/index.php)
(Brazilian Air Force),
[MB](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.marinha.mil.br/)
(Brazilian Navy), and
[MCTI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/mcti/pt-br)
(Ministry of Science, Technology, and Innovation) met virtually with the
aim of continuing the work and discussions of the Scientific Committee
of the Ocean, Land Surface, and Atmosphere Forecasting Model. These
minutes record the meeting and gather the information entered in the
chat, such as links and other information relevant to the discussions
held. Following the opening of the meeting, led by institutional
coordinators Saulo Freitas/INPE and Pedro Dias/USP, this document is
oriented according to the guidelines established by Saulo Freitas during
his presentation.

Saulo Freitas begins the meeting by welcoming all participants and
announces the items to be discussed during the MONAN CC meeting.

## Agenda 1 - New Members

Saulo Freitas, in the discussion of the first agenda of the meeting,
announced the new members of the MONAN CC: 1. [Celso von
Randow](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/0535860239259102)
from the Division of Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerabilities (
[DIIAV](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.ccst.inpe.br/)
) of INPE; 2. [Renato Galante
Negri](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/1938964222771319)
from the Division of Satellites and Meteorological Systems (
[DISM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://satelite.cptec.inpe.br/home/index.jsp?i%3Dbr)
) of INPE and 3. [Antônio Marcos
Mendonça](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/4230309177760883)
as representative of MCTI. He also announced that member Daniel
Alejandro Vila was invited to be a representative of the *World
Meteorological Organization* (
[WMO](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://public.wmo.int/en)
), and that, for this reason, he will become an external member of WMO
on the MONAN CC.

## Agenda 2 - Retrospective and Actions

Saulo Freitas, in the discussion of the second agenda of the meeting,
gives a retrospective of the events since the first meeting of the CC,
comments on the participating institutions and that the CC currently has
35 members. He talks about the development of MONAN, which is included
in INPE's strategic planning for the next 5 years and that the program
has already been recognized as an MCTI program, with its own budget and
an initial duration of 10 years. He comments on the agreement signed
with the *European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts* ( [ECMWF )
for access to
the](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/)
*Open Integrated Forecasting System* (
[OpenIFS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/en/research/projects/openifs)
) codes , access to data, holding seminars and training sessions and the
production of a visualization program for unstructured grids using
[METView](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/en/elibrary/18136-metview)
. He comments on the Project Opening Term (TAP) for the agreement with
the *National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration* (
[NOAA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.noaa.gov/)
).

Still within the retrospective, Saulo Freitas comments that the current
year (2022) was very important for the internal reorganization of INPE
with a focus on MONAN: he mentions that between August 31st and
September 2nd, an internal workshop was held by the General Coordination
of Earth Sciences (
[CGCT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br/composicao/diretoria/coordenacao-geral-de-ciencias-da-terra-cgct)
) of INPE, with the objective of discussing the reorganization of the
divisions of Numerical Modeling of the Earth System (
[DIMNT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www3.cptec.inpe.br/dimnt/)
), Satellite and Meteorological Systems Division (DISSM) and Weather and
Climate Forecasting Division (DIPTC) of the center around the
development of MONAN. He comments that, in this reorganization,
transversal groups (called macrogroups) were established, formed with
members of all three divisions. He adds that other internal workshops
were also held on the topics of atmosphere, oceans and cryosphere and
[data
assimilation](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_ad/ata_workshop_6_7_setembro_2022/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp)
, in preparation for the developments of MONAN. He mentions that the
organization of the macrogroups was structured and registered in the
Electronic Information Service (SEI). Saulo Freitas also comments on the
search for resources with the support of the director of INPE, [Clézio
Marcos De
Nardin](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br/composicao/diretoria/clezio-marcos-de-nardin)
, and the coordinator of CGCT, [Gilvan Sampaio de
Oliveira](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br/composicao/diretoria/coordenacao-geral-de-ciencias-da-terra-cgct/gilvan-sampaio-de-oliveira)
. He mentions the approval of the INPE Computing Infrastructure Renewal
(RISC) project, with a budget of R$200 million over 4 years, approved by
[FINEP](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.finep.gov.br/)
. The project has 7 goals, 3 of which are intended for the operation of
MONAN using the new supercomputer. Saulo Freitas also comments on the
proposal for MONAN as a National Institute of Science and Technology (
[INCT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://inct.cnpq.br/)
), with a budget perspective of R$7 million over 5 years, managed by 11
members of the MONAN CC. He also comments on another search for
resources, a budget request for 2023, with R$5 million per year, being
approved as an MCTI program. With this, a proposal was submitted for a
CT&I line to the National Fund for Scientific and Technological
Development (
[FNDCT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.finep.gov.br/a-finep-externo/fndct/fndct)
) for funding/capital. Another proposal that can be worked on is within
the FAPESP Research Program on Global Climate Change (
[PFPMCG](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://fapesp.br/pfpmcg/)
), within the theme of changes in land use and occupation and
agriculture, strategies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and
adaptation to climate change.

## Agenda 3 - Report of the PAD subcommittee

Luiz Flávio begins his presentation by commenting on the activities
carried out by the Scientific Computing Group (GCC), one of which is the
analysis of 3 dynamic cores for MONAN. Luiz Flávio comments on the
formation of the team, composed of the employees [Carlos Renato de
Souza](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/2349556260957146)
, [Denis Magalhães de Almeira
Eiras](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/5730926226268088)
, [Eduardo Georges
Khamis](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/8750542728494463)
, [João Messias Alves da
Silva](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/0185098295394379)
from INPE and the employee Roberto P. Souto from LNCC. He comments that
the team is being expanded and that they have dedicated themselves
greatly to the work carried out. He mentions that the codes evaluated
were the *Global Eta Framework* (
[GEF](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://bdtd.ibict.br/vufind/Record/INPE_6222c92138c160b4406374440fe14b9c)
), *Finite Volume 3* (
[FV3](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/fv3/)
) and the *Model for Prediction Across Scales* (
[MPAS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://ncar.ucar.edu/what-we-offer/models/model-prediction-across-scales-mpas)
), remembering that the FV3 and MPAS models have already been evaluated
by NOAA. Luiz Flávio comments that the evaluations performed focused on
the source code of the models and did not consider non-functional
requirements, i.e., whether the dynamic cores represent the physics well
or not. The functional evaluation of the models will be performed by the
Model Evaluation Group (
[GAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/GAM-DIMNT-CPTEC)
) of INPE. The aspects of maintainability, portability, performance,
scalability and efficiency were addressed for the evaluation. He
mentions that all tasks were performed and recorded on
[GitHub](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/monanadmin/monan)
and
[ZenHub](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/gcc-monan-62a3a783cb59a00014ce8e70/board)
of MONAN. In the first topic, maintainability, the MPAS model was the
one that obtained the highest score (22 points), very close to FV3 (20
points). Regarding portability, the MPAS model also scored more points
(8.2 points for MPAS and 4.4 for FV3). Luiz Flávio comments that the
report with the rules, scores and complete results of this evaluation
are available in the document [Report of the Computational Evaluation of
Dynamic
Cores](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/monanadmin/monan/blob/main/doc/Relatorio_Avaliacao_Computacional_Core_Dinamico%2520(1).pdf)
.

Luciano Pezzi asks Luiz Flávio about the negative points attributed to
some packages used by the dynamic cores. Luiz Flávio comments that the
points are removed because the installation of some of these packages is
not trivial, which increases the complexity of using the source code of
the models.

Next, Luiz Flávio invites Roberto Souto to explain the results of
parallelism and code efficiency (code quality and Performance,
Scalability and Efficiency - PEE), considering the MPAS 15 km model, in
a 24-hour simulation without the model's physics. With technical
problems from Roberto Souto, Luiz Flávio resumes the presentation.
Regarding the code quality analysis, in the PEE aspect, the MPAS 15 km
model was tested for predictions of only 24 hours due to time
limitations and use of Dell's Rattler machine. In processing for
*Graphics Processing Unit* (GPU), the MPAS model was faster than the FV3
model, even being faster than the FV3 model itself when used only with
CPU processing. In general, in the PEE aspect, the MPAS model was
slightly better than the FV3 model, although the FV3 model is easier to
work with (it is simpler from the source code point of view). Luiz
Flávio comments that the current version of the MPAS model loses in
processing time to the FV3 model.

Saulo Freitas comments on the good work done by the GCC in relation to
the dynamic cores evaluation report and then opens the floor for
questions.

Pedro Dias asks Luiz Flávio if the documentation for the end user was
also evaluated. Luiz Flávio comments that this was one of the
requirements of the evaluation, which is the number of documentable
lines of code. Pedro Dias adds to the question about the user manual and
options for each model and if this was also evaluated. Luiz Flávio
responds that for the FV3 model, this type of documentation was not
available, but that the community organization is agile when it comes to
user questions. Luiz Flávio adds that only the code documentation was
evaluated.

Vinicius Capistrano asks about the coupling structure of the FV3 model
and whether the evaluations took this into account as well. Luiz Flávio
answers yes.

Saulo Freitas comments on the aspect of code complexity, with the
difference between the MPAS and FV3 models being quite evident. In this
sense, Saulo Freitas mentions the issue of community involvement, for
which code simplicity is important. In this sense, he asks Luiz Flávio
if the GPU programming aspect will be a difficulty for the community.
Luiz Flávio responds by saying that, currently, programming for GPUs is
no longer a major challenge and that the *Compute Unified Device
Architecture* (
[CUDA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/CUDA)
) programming language has advanced enough to use
[OpenACC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.openacc.org/)
, which greatly facilitates programming by inserting directives in the
source code, which indicate to the compiler which parts of the code
should be processed on the GPU.

Enio Souza asks Luiz Flávio if GPU processing is a requirement of MONAN,
and whether this requirement was already defined or not. Luiz Flávio
responds that this is an aspect that is still open and that it will not
necessarily be used directly. Despite this, GPU processing is more
focused on applications that depend on artificial intelligence. He cites
the article [*High-Performance Computing in Meteorology under a Context
of an Era of Graphical Processing Units* (Nakaegawa,
2022)](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XGMxjg0usac-sdZcuyF_byP1Yh0rmmqA/view?usp%3Dsharing)
which surveys the centers that use GPUs for processing numerical models.
Most centers are still using CPUs.

Caio Coelho asks about the application of the dynamic cores of the MPAS
and FV3 models for subseasonal, seasonal and climatic scales. Saulo
Freitas responds that this issue, which involves physics, is yet to be
studied and that in the current stage of evaluations, the objective is
to test the quality of the dynamic cores to verify their computational
efficiency. Pedro Dias comments that, for now, no center is applying the
MPAS model for forecasts on these scales. Saulo Freitas adds that, for
these scales, it is the physics of the model that dominates the model's
forecasting ability and not the dynamics, since first-order errors are
dominated by physics. He adds that, if we want a model ready for the
seasonal scale, we should choose the FV3 model, but if we want a model
to which we can contribute with our legacy and make it work
competitively on all scales, we should choose the MPAS model. Antonio
Manzi suggests creating a subgroup within the MONAN CC that would
maintain contact with the *National Center for Atmospheric Research* (
[NCAR](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://ncar.ucar.edu/)
) staff to follow MPAS developments for the forecast scales that Caio
Coelho addressed in his comment. Pedro Dias committed to talking to some
of his contacts at NCAR.

## Agenda 4 - Planning the Assessment under Meteorological Aspects

Moving on to the next topic, Saulo Freitas invites researcher [Ariane
Frassoni dos Santos de
Mattos](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/9897358688381968)
/INPE for her presentation on the functional evaluation with the
comparison of the results of the dynamic cores of the MPAS and FV3
models.

Ariane Frassoni begins her presentation by addressing dynamic cores from
a meteorological and source code quality perspective. She comments that
the objective is to determine metrics for evaluating dynamic cores for
use in MONAN. The characteristics of the functional aspects of dynamic
cores involve suitability, accuracy, interoperability, compliance and
security. During her presentation, Ariane Frassoni mentions the
requirements for a non-hydrostatic dynamic core and that dynamic cores
that do not have this characteristic are considered unsuitable for the
intended applications for MONAN.

Saulo Freitas thanks the presentation and opens the discussion. Pedro
Peixoto asks if the pre-processing and post-processing, which were used
to generate the results presented by Ariane Frassoni, are public on
GitHub, since there is an interest in gathering all the information in a
single repository. He comments that he has some programs and scripts
with which he can also contribute and that it is important to do these
developments collaboratively. Saulo Freitas and Luiz Flávio agree with
Pedro Peixoto's proposal and Luiz Flávio comments that these codes can
be placed in the MONAN repository.

Pedro Dias comments that it is important to have objective diagnostic
tools for evaluating numerical models, but that it is also necessary to
make comparisons with the real observed data (e.g., radiosonde).

## Actions for the Next Meeting

1.  Create a communication channel with NCAR developers to monitor the
    development of the MPAS model for applications at subseasonal to
    climatic scales;
2.  Create a collaboration channel between the DIMNT Model Evaluation
    Group (GAM) and Pedro Peixo's research group for sharing
    pre-processing and post-processing scripts and programs for MPAS;
3.  Talk to Roberto Souto about what is possible to execute on the LNCC
    Santos Dumont supercomputer for experiments with the MPAS and FV3
    dynamic cores;
4.  João Gerd’s report on the DAS-DIMNT (Data Assimilation) Workshop.

??? example "Attachments"

    * [Recording of the MONAN Scientific Committee Meeting - October 13, 2022](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://youtu.be/OYq1sglZH_4)
    * [Slides Saulo Freitas](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zygyxtj6_vr3dPpkBsUdBli04UKlKJmd/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Presentation by Luiz Flavio](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1q8t90nqOan7lAlJU7CQyLIDpNCzhB3qI/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Presentation by Ariane Frassoni](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1omeScQiOmKT2Jthy7SeFeoUxtYSX6OZ5/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Nakaegawa Article (2022)](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XGMxjg0usac-sdZcuyF_byP1Yh0rmmqA/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Report on the Computational Evaluation of Dynamic Cores](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/monanadmin/monan/blob/main/doc/Relatorio_Avaliacao_Computacional_Core_Dinamico%2520(1).pdf)
