
!!! warning "AI-Translated Page"

      This page was translated using artificial intelligence (AI). The content may contain inaccuracies or misinterpretations. For critical or official use, please consult the site [administrator](mailto:mcstu.inpe@gmail.com) to confirm the information.


# May 5, 2021

## MINUTES 001/2021 - Revision 004

![type:video](https://youtube.com/embed/M9BPd6xVIcI)

Meeting of the Scientific Committee of the Community Model of the
Unified Earth System. At 3:00 pm on May 5, 2021, representatives of INPE
(National Institute for Space Research), INMET (National Institute of
Meteorology), UFCG (Federal University of Campina Grande), CENSIPAM
(Management and Operational Center of the Amazon Protection System), ITA
(Technological Institute of Aeronautics), INPA (National Institute for
Amazon Research), UFSM (Federal University of Santa Maria), USP
(University of SÃ£o Paulo), LNCC (National Laboratory for Scientific
Computing) and UFMS (Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul) met
virtually, with the aim of presenting and initiating the work of the
Scientific Committee of the Community Model of the Unified Earth System
(MCSTU). These minutes record the meeting and gather the information
entered in the chat, such as links and information relevant to the
discussions held. Following the opening of the meeting, carried out by
Saulo Freitas and Pedro Dias, this document is oriented according to the
guidelines established by Saulo Freitas during his presentation.

## Opening

Saulo Freitas and Pedro Dias greet all guests and recall that the first
meeting of this committee took place on April 8, 2021, when the Director
of INPE appointed the members of INPE who make up the Scientific
Committee of the Community Model of the Unified Earth System.

## Agenda 1 - Introduction of MCSTU

Gilvan Sampaio (General Coordinator of CGCT/INPE) thanks everyone for
accepting the invitation, given the challenge of creating a unified
model. He highlights the presence of members of
[CENSIPAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/defesa/pt-br/assuntos/censipam)
and
[INMET](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.inmet.gov.br/)
, but emphasizes that these two institutions are also stakeholders in
this community effort. He also appreciates the presence of Fernando II.
Regarding the community model, he emphasizes that the objective of the
committee - which is scientific - is to debate science, discuss and
manage the development of the community model. The decisions that are
made must be scientific and have no direct relation to the National
Meteorological System. The committee must make decisions based on
scientific criteria. These discussions are important, as they will be
presented to the other working groups. He emphasizes that this is a very
important step for national meteorology. On the part of
[INPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.inpe.br/)
, represented by the Director, who is committed to this process, the
members of the scientific committee will have the support of
[CGCT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.inpe.br/institucional/sobre_inpe/organograma/orgUnidade.php?siglaUnidade%3DCGCT)
(General Coordination of Earth Sciences) and the INPE Board of
Directors, whose roles are as facilitators.

Clezio de Nardin (Director of INPE) thanks everyone for their presence,
especially the external members, and reiterates INPE's support for the
process that is being established. He informs that he will always
participate, but that he would like his presence to be requested when
necessary.

Saulo Freitas reiterates that the Director's participation is always
welcome. This is not a trivial task and the support of the Director of
INPE is important. He emphasizes that at some point, the participation
of the Director of INMET and the directors and vice-rectors of the
participating Brazilian universities will also be pertinent. He states
that this activity transcends the walls of INPE, and that the
development of the community model of the unified Earth system is a
model from Brazil to Brazil.

Saulo Freitas thanks the Director, introduces the scientific committee
rapporteur Carlos Bastarz and Fabielle Mota as secretarial support.

## Agenda 2 - History of INPE's initiatives to develop a unified modeling system

Pedro Dias summarizes the historical facts in the context of model
developments in Brazil and what happened at
[CPTEC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.cptec.inpe.br/)
. A historical review of the beginning of atmospheric modeling in Brazil
until the establishment of CPTEC. The 1980s were marked by research with
regional models, simplified global spectral models, as well as oceanic
and atmospheric pollution models, also with a focus on research. At that
time, it was found that Brazil had the minimum competence to enter the
operational area, through LACCAS (Latin American and Caribbean Center
for Atmospheric Sciences). The CPTEC project and the choice of a model:
global, from
[COLA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://cola.gmu.edu/)
and regional, from RAMS (currently
[BRAMS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://brams.cptec.inpe.br/)
, with Brazilian developments),
[ETA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://etamodel.cptec.inpe.br/)
(also with Brazilian developments). The choice of ETA was due to the use
of the appropriate coordinate for mountainous and abrupt regions. In the
1990s, global and regional models began to operate, as well as ensemble
weather forecasting and some improvements in model performance (in
collaboration with Jairo Panetta, Saulo Barros, Pedro Dias and other
collaborators). The first experiments with data assimilation (in
collaboration with JMA). In the 2000s, the coupling between the
atmosphere and the ocean occurred (Paulo Nobre and team), and the
forecast was extended to 30 days. CPTEC's participation in [TIGGE was
essential.](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://confluence.ecmwf.int/display/TIGGE)(providing
forecasts over 10 days). In 2009, the Santa Rita do Passa Quatro
workshop was held, with the aim of outlining a vision for the future of
modeling. Pedro Dias states that, curiously, many of the questions that
were asked at that time remain the same today. There have been advances
in research, but little progress has been made operationally. From 2011
onwards, the impact of the reduction in financial resources was felt.
Some priority questions that arise are: why make global forecasts? Is it
strategic? Can't we just use global forecasts from other centers to
initialize regional forecasts? Should we or shouldn't we have
independence in generating forecast products? Is it correct to depend on
forecasts from foreign agencies? Global models are necessary for
seasonal climate forecasts. All actors in the meteorological system run
regional models. Is all this effort necessary? Who is in charge of
developing these models? Only CPTEC (including data assimilation) is
fully aware. CPTEC had and has knowledge of the ins and outs of this
process. Running models "gives status", but it is important to develop
products for specific users. The failure was partly due to management
problems in the national meteorological system. This resulted in
technical delays, mainly in updating supercomputers, taking advantage of
new architectures, using massive parallelism, using co-processors, and
seamless prediction (multi-scale, multi-physics vision). The challenge
lies in adjusting the models to our reality; in bringing together people
from different specialties; in having goals such as internationally
competitive products (we need to stop being users); in placing greater
emphasis on essential processes and greater influence in the tropics. We
need to recognize that we have fallen behind. Part of the problem was
financial and the other part was coordination between the actors in the
national meteorological system. It is necessary to develop stable
partnerships. We need to have multiple partners. In the chat, Ronald
Buss questions why the focus should be on the tropical region, given
that the country is continental and one of the problems is the
relatively low predictability in the southeast region, which is
precisely affected by phenomena originating in the subtropics and ocean,
which depend on remote links, including with Antarctica. Pedro Dias
argues that the goal is to have the best forecast for South America and
its surroundings; the oceans adjacent to South America are essential,
but the evaluation metric should be the improvement of forecasts for
Brazil. In the chat, Pedro Dias adds that if a remote phenomenon has an
impact on improving the forecast, it should be included.

Gilvan Sampaio corroborates Pedro Dias' statement and adds that in 2016,
some meetings were held at CPTEC, where discussions on a unified model
were initiated. Unfortunately, it did not move forward due to several
changes at the center. Nevertheless, this focus was maintained, as an
agreement was signed with
[NOAA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.noaa.gov/)
and ECMWF. As mentioned by Pedro Dias, in 2017, 2018 and 2019,
discussions with NOAA continued. In 2019, the agreement with NOAA will
be reviewed and reformulated. Historically, these agreements have been
little explored. With NOAA, the agreement was related to satellites and
currently it will include modeling.

## Agenda 3 - Presentation of the Initial Proposal for Scientific Activities within the scope of MCSTU

Paulo Kubota presents an initial proposal of scientific topics to be
addressed within the scope of the MCSTU. The objective is to foster the
development base of the MCSTU. The initial proposal considers the
holding of lectures and round tables on the scientific topics "data
assimilation and terrestrial observation systems", "Earth system
modeling", "dynamic cores", "high-performance processing", "coupling
technologies" and "general topics". Although there is still no initial
schedule (it depends on the agendas of the CGCT Coordinator and the INPE
Board), the scientific activities are expected to last 5 weeks, with
each week dedicated to specific topics. Two or three lectures with a
round table are planned per day and the scientific activities committee
should meet at the end of the week to prepare a report on the topic of
the week, collecting the most important information presented and the
results of the discussions. This report should be submitted to the MCSTU
scientific committee. Paulo Kubota emphasizes that the committee is open
to suggestions from members of the MCSTU scientific committee and that
the document with the initial proposal will be submitted for
consideration, review and collection of suggestions from the committee
members. Saulo Freitas informs that the proposal will be decided at the
next meeting of the scientific committee, already with the contributions
of the members.

Pedro Dias emphasizes that, when it comes to data assimilation, one
should not only consider the atmosphere.
[JEDI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.jcsda.org/jcsda-project-jedi)
(Joint Effort for Data Assimilation Integration) is an important system
because it is related to the Earth system as a whole. One should think
of a methodology that applies to all systems in the Earth system.

Jairo Panetta comments on the software structure, which must include the
global and regional aspects, coupling, and the dynamic insertion of
variables from fields of other systems in the Earth system. He asks
Paulo Kubota whether these aspects are included in any research topic
and suggests combining these aspects with high-performance processing.
This is related to the way in which dynamics, physics, etc. are
designed.

Pedro Peixoto made two comments on the topics presented by Paulo Kubota,
in the context of the statements made by Jairo Panetta. 1. Computational
structure is very important and he emphasizes that MetOffice and ECMWF
have invested heavily in this. Examples of this are
[ESCAPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.hpc-escape.eu/media-hub/news-and-announcements/atlassoftwarelibraryreleased/)
(Energy-efficient Scalable Algorithms for Weather Prediction at
Exascale) and
[GungHo!,](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/en/elibrary/14761-gungho-new-dynamical-core-unified-model)
which are projects focused on these aspects. In this same context, Pedro
Peixoto indicates in the chat the
[link](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0743731518305306)
to an article about the software infrastructure designed by MetOffice,
called LFRic (an allusion to scientist Lewis Fry Richardson). It is
necessary to design a platform flexible enough to accommodate all of
this and this is a very intense software development work. 2. The
connection between these aspects. Some decisions have interdependencies,
and it is necessary to think about how all groups can benefit. It is not
just about coupling between the components, but how to choose them. It
illustrates that within the atmospheric system, when optimizations are
included among others, it cannot be good for just one component, but has
to be good for all other components of the Earth system. Saulo Freitas
mentions the name of the researcher [Peter
Bauer](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/en/about/who-we-are/staff-profiles/peter-bauer)
from ECMWF and has the agreement of Pedro Peixoto, as a person to
collaborate in the establishment of these aspects.

Haroldo Fraga discusses software refactoring and questions how physics
codes already produced can be reused in a new dynamic core. He states
that the feasibility of this should be discussed, in recovering what has
already been done, as this can help in decision-making. The
[OLAN](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.scielo.br/j/rbmet/a/gmn4xf3DHFDzpM549T7nQRR/?lang%3Dpt)
(Ocean Land Atmosphere Model), for example, can be recovered, as some
time was invested in this project and it is not being used. Would it be
a case of reusing what has already been done? He also highlights that
the evaluation metric should be the best performance in rain forecasting
over Brazil.

Roberto Souto adds to the topic of software refactoring, and proposes
the name of researcher [Tadeu
Gomes](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.lncc.br/~atagomes/)
from LNCC for the topic of "High Performance Processing" in the lecture
and round table series. He mentions that, although he does not work with
weather forecasting, he is a software engineer and focuses on scientific
computing.

Luiz FlÃ¡vio emphasizes that the document with the initial proposal for
scientific activities was created to receive contributions from
everyone, which is essential. He also emphasizes that it concerns the
organization of the developments to be carried out. This topic can be
more specific to the computing team, and computing is a cross-cutting
topic. It is necessary to standardize the software development
methodology. With a small team, it is already difficult to control
software. With a larger team, it will be even more difficult. If a
standard is not established, there is a risk of not being able to
develop the software, which would not happen with a larger team. In the
context of software engineering, Haroldo Fraga points to the transition
from the MM5 model to the WRF as an example of success.

Pedro Dias states that the points raised are fundamental and that this
is what will provide reliability and longevity in software development.

Luiz CÃ¢ndido asks about the scale that the model is intended to be
developed on, since he realizes that topics such as cloud microphysics
and other processes have not been mentioned. Saulo Freitas reiterates
that these topics will be discussed. Physical parameterizations that are
suitable for various scales (multiscale and multiphysics) will be
necessary. This is an ambitious goal, but one that must be pursued.
Pedro Dias states that Brazil has expertise in these areas and that many
people can contribute.

## Agenda 4 - Definition of committee members to collect and document MCTSU requirements, demands, and counterparts

Saulo Freitas comments on the definition of the committee members, as a
zero-order approximation. The people appointed will be focal points and
will be responsible for creating collaboration subnetworks with other
partners from the national and international community (stakeholders).
Documents should be formatted to include the requirements for physics,
dynamics, computational grid, coupling technologies, PAD (High
Performance Processing), data assimilation methods, etc. The demands are
the applications, the problems to be addressed, the necessary
performance and the minimum accuracy. The counterparts are what the
Brazilian community can offer to the partners and international
institutions. What can the community benefit from the development of the
community model? What are the infrastructure demands, the resources for
computing equipment and observation of the Earth system? The material
produced by the focal points and the subnetworks will be the basis for
the work. The focal points should meet with the regional development and
research groups to form the subnetworks that should be integrated into
the scope of the work. The focal points initially appointed are:

1.  Integrated Modeling System: Pedro Dias/USP
2.  Atmosphere: Saulo Freitas/INPE
3.  Surface and Continental Soils: Antonio Manzi/INPE
4.  Oceans and Continental and Sea Ice: Ronald Buss/INPE
5.  Space Weather: Joaquim Costa/INPE
6.  High Performance Processing and Code Quality: Luiz FlÃ¡vio/INPE
7.  Earth System Data Assimilation: JoÃ£o Gerd/INPE
8.  Advanced Data Assimilation Methods and Artificial Intelligence
    Applications: Haroldo Fraga/INPE
9.  Universities of the North/Northeast: Ãnio Souza/UFCG
10. Southeast Universities and Research Institutes: Pedro Dias/USP
11. Southern Universities: OtÃ¡vio Acevedo/UFSM
12. Universities of the Midwest: Vinicius Capistrano/UFMS
13. CENSIPAM: Ivan Saraiva
14. INMET: Francisco Quixaba
15. Suggestions? What's missing?

Ronald Buss, via chat, points out that a better name for the topic
"Oceans and Continental and Sea Ice" is "Oceans and Cryosphere". He
argues that "cryosphere = sea ice, polar ice caps and third pole (icy
mountains) - disregarding permafrost for now". Pedro Dias points out
that there is a lack of a focal point for the topic "evaluation". He
questions whether this topic should not be considered. The evaluation
metric depends a lot on the user's needs. For the energy sector,
rainfall (as Haroldo mentioned) may not be the most appropriate metric;
it could be wind, radiation, etc. Stakeholders have different needs
(agribusiness, the [National Water
Agency](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/ana/pt-br)
, etc., large users of INMET).

Saulo Freitas agrees and suggests that the committee look for a focal
point that can fulfill this coordination and asks who can make this
approach, asking the stakeholders what their needs are regarding the
evaluation of the system to be developed.

Francisco Quixaba reports that with
[COSMOS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.inmet.gov.br/servicos/previs%25C3%25A3o-num%25C3%25A9rica-modelo)
, INMET has served some users (e.g., agribusiness). He questions the
absence of the Navy, which has also processed numerical models.

Pedro Dias questions whether CENSIPAM does not encompass this sector;
Gilvan Sampaio states that it does, that CENSIPAM is the body that
represents the armed forces.

Ivan Saraiva informs that, at this moment, he does not have a certain
answer about the Navy's representation in CENSIPAM, but that he will
check about this representation.

Gilvan Sampaio points out that Caio Coelho can contribute, as he is a
member of the
[S2S](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/en/research/projects/s2s)
(Subseasonal to Seasonal) evaluation group, and believes he should be
included as a representative.

Enio Souza points out that when the focal points were divided, the North
and Northeast were combined. He argues that they are two different
regions with different groups and stakeholders. He suggests separating
the regions, with Luis CÃ¢ndido taking care of the North and him (Enio
Souza) taking care of the Northeast.

Ronald Buss argues that there is an imbalance between the people in the
area of ââatmosphere and oceans and ice. He points out that the scientific
community on ocean and ice is poorly represented and that he would like
to point out that the physical oceanography community is very large and
that there is a lack of people from this area on the MCSTU scientific
committee. He argues that he cannot and does not feel safe representing
this group alone. The REMO network (Oceanographic Modeling and
Observation Network) is an established network and there are some
obstacles to this group providing products to society. He says that he
expects the community to be involved and represented in the development
of the model, and that the model should work both below and above water.

Pedro Dias agrees with Ronald Buss and says that the REMO network is
fundamental and this partnership must be institutionalized.

Saulo Freitas reiterates that this is indeed the first meeting. Everyone
will be welcomed and there is no "seat limit". The scientific committee
is in its first stages, is being structured and the people indicated by
Ronald Buss will be invited.

## Agenda 5 - INPE-ECMWF Agreement in the Context of MCSTU

Saulo Freitas introduces the INPE-ECMWF agreement, in the context of the
community model. He invites Fernando II and Caio Coelho to present.

Fernando II listed the possible topics for collaboration with ECMWF. He
pointed out that one of the reasons for ECMWF's success is that it has a
single objective, which is to develop the medium- to long-term forecast
model. All of the agreements that ECMWF makes are aimed at improving the
model itself. ECMWF has an adequate and up-to-date structure for its
operational and development activities. Cooperation between INPE and
ECMWF has been going on since 1988 and the areas of cooperation are
reviewed every year. ECMWF can cooperate with INPE in the context of
developing the community model, with lectures and workshops on modeling,
and training. In the agreement with ECMWF, there is always a "free
chair" for any course. There is an agreement that includes modeling and
Copernicus (
[C3S](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://climate.copernicus.eu/) -
Copernicus Climate Change Service for atmospheric monitoring, climate
change, etc.), artificial intelligence, scalability,
[OpenIFS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.esiwace.eu/services/software-support/sup_OpenIFS)
programme (ECMWF model, open for research and teaching - the previous
version and without data assimilation), cloud computing - [European
Weather
Cloud](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.europeanweather.cloud/)
and
[ClimetLab](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://climetlab.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) -
access software for meteorological datasets.

Pedro Dias requests clarification on the possibility of people outside
INPE participating in the training offered by ECMWF, within the scope of
the INPE agreement. Caio Coelho and Fernando II point out that it is
possible, with INPE's consent.

Saulo Freitas states that the courses can be taken online. He highlights
that OpenIFS physics can be used as a basis for developing the community
model, ECMWF analyses for validation, and MetView for viewing
unstructured grids.

Haroldo Fraga argues that it is important to negotiate a specific work
plan for the community model within the INPE-ECMWF agreement.

Fernando II points out that the INPE-ECMWF agreement is renewed every 5
years and that the work plans are annual.

Caio Coelho adds that ECMWF's focus is also only on forecasting between
a few days and a few months (extended forecasting - up to 10 days,
sub-seasonal - up to 5 weeks, seasonal - up to 6 months, using 50% of
the computational resources available for research activities to develop
the model for these three scales). They do not do nowcasting or climate
change projections. Their contribution to climate change projections is
to provide the tools for storing and accessing projections produced by
other centers for use by the community in general.

## Other Matters

Haroldo Fraga, via chat, suggests using the RNP (National Education and
Research Network)
[ConferÃªnciaweb](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://conferenciaweb.rnp.br/)
platform to record meetings.

During Gilvan Sampaio's speech, after Pedro Dias' presentation in the
context of "Agenda 2 - History of INPE's initiatives to develop a
unified modeling system", Francisco Quixaba questions Pedro Dias about
the INMET-CPTEC agreement; this discussion can be seen in the recording
chat from
[58'46"](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.youtube.com/watch?t%3D3526%26v%3DM9BPd6xVIcI%26feature%3Dyoutu.be)
.

During discussions about the computational infrastructure to be designed
for community development, in the context of "Agenda 3 - Initial
Proposal Presentation of Scientific Activities within the scope of
MCSTU", Carlos Bastarz suggests standardizing the development
environment with the use of containers.

## Actions for the Next Meeting

1.  Send the document with the initial proposal of the names listed for
    the lectures and round tables for consideration and collection of
    suggestions by the scientific committee;
2.  Find a focal point for the community model evaluation subnetwork;
3.  Consider the name of researcher Tadeu Gomes/LNCC for the theme of
    "High Performance Processing" in the lecture and round table cycles
    (suggestion by Roberto Souto/LNCC) and researcher Peter Bauer/ECMWF
    as a participant in the discussions within the scope of scientific
    activities;
4.  Reinforce the need for data assimilation to be considered in all
    components of the Earth system (suggestion by Pedro Dias/USP);
5.  Consider the suggestion by Ronald Buss/INPE to change the name of
    the theme "Oceans and Continental and Sea Ice" to "Oceans and
    Cryosphere";
6.  Include/detail software engineering proposals in the development of
    the community model (suggestions Roberto Souto/LNCC, Pedro
    Peixoto/USP, Haroldo Fraga/INPE and Luiz FlÃ¡vio/INPE);
7.  Review the needs of the scientific committee within the scope of the
    INPE-ECMWF agreement;


??? example "Attachments"

    * [Slides Saulo Freitas](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1noNZMHBbzU_RyEJ6yBy0UOskxkbkOhDb/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Minutes of the MONAN Scientific Committee Meeting - May 5, 2021](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CluAxN6ip-FbIdGd8AUgtS5BkH5e-qjj/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Recording of the MONAN Scientific Committee Meeting - May 5, 2021](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://youtu.be/M9BPd6xVIcI)
    * [Presentation Pedro Dias](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GVFnAl3TtGuOOvJNNctIJwGBTSEWhWOU/edit?usp%3Dsharing%26ouid%3D106538284579177679646%26rtpof%3Dtrue%26sd%3Dtrue)
    * [Presentation by Paulo Kubota](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/10aHoyIOxClS1W6ZAN580GdiUiR0uKGET/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Presentation of Fernando II](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Nae2WiRrhfBiTCP7zX6AtsqySJYR3TJe/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Article - Adams et al. (2019)](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pu6jW-QV6WyLW1nvbmnAzmiIeoCBCqJv/view?usp%3Dsharing)
