
!!! warning "AI-Translated Page"

      This page was translated using artificial intelligence (AI). The content may contain inaccuracies or misinterpretations. For critical or official use, please consult the site [administrator](mailto:mcstu.inpe@gmail.com) to confirm the information.


# March 5, 2024

## MINUTES 001/2024 - Revision 005

![type:video](https://youtube.com/embed/6sAmptPZMOg)

Meeting of the Scientific Committee of the Ocean, Land Surface and
Atmosphere Forecasting Model. At 10:00 am on March 5, 2024,
representatives of INPE (National Institute for Space Research), INMET
(National Institute of Meteorology), UFCG (Federal University of Campina
Grande), USP (University of São Paulo), LNCC (National Laboratory for
Scientific Computing), UFRJ (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro), UFMS
(Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul), UFPA (Federal University of
Pará), UFPel (Federal University of Pelotas), UECE (State University of
Ceará), CENSIPAM (Management and Operational Center of the Amazon
Protection System), FAB (Brazilian Air Force), MB (Brazilian Navy), MCTI
(Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovations) and SMN (National
Meteorological Service of Argentina) met virtually, with the aim of
advancing the work and discussions of the Scientific Committee (CC).
These minutes record the meeting and gather the information entered in
the chat, such as links and other information relevant to the
discussions held. Following the opening of the meeting, led by
institutional coordinators Saulo Freitas/INPE and Pedro Dias/USP, this
document is oriented according to the guidelines established by Saulo
Freitas during his presentation.

At the start of the 10th CC meeting, Saulo Freitas invited Gilvan
Sampaio ( [Coordinator of the General Coordination of Earth Sciences at
INPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br/composicao/diretoria/coordenacao-geral-de-ciencias-da-terra-cgct)
) to open the meeting. Gilvan Sampaio announced the receipt of funds for
the purchase of INPE's new supercomputer, an amount worth approximately
R$45,000,000.00 (forty-five million reais). He said that the funds were
already in
[FUNCATE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.funcate.org.br/pt/)
and that the documentation for the purchase bidding process was ready.
Gilvan Sampaio said that the purchase process was complex, but that all
pending issues related to it had been resolved. The second piece of news
was the increase in the budget for MONAN, with R$800,000.00 (eight
hundred thousand reais) being allocated from the CPTEC's PO (Budget
Project). This budget will allow for the in-person MONAN workshop.
Gilvan Sampaio comments that this is good news for INPE and MONAN, as it
will improve working conditions within the scope of MONAN's development.
Saulo Freitas then invites Pedro Dias to make his opening remarks.

Pedro Dias asks Gilvan Sampaio about the budget for the renovation of
CPTEC's DC (Data Center), which should be allocated in the second
installment. Gilvan Sampaio explains that the first installment is for
the supercomputer and that the second is for the update of the CPTEC's
DC air conditioning and power system. This is because other institutions
will be allowed to use CPTEC's DC in a "colocation" format. Gilvan
Sampaio adds that this update also includes the installation of a
photovoltaic plant for generating electricity.

On the same subject, Haroldo Fraga asks Gilvan Sampaio when and how the
other installments will be transferred. Gilvan Sampaio comments that
these transfers are delayed and that it is necessary to fulfill the
execution of the current installment of the project so that the others
can be released. Gilvan Sampaio adds that the expectation is that the
other installments will be released in the second half of 2024 or early
2025. In the discussion with other members of the MONAN CC, it was
commented that 70% of the previous installment must be spent so that the
next one can be released.

After the initial announcements made by Gilvan Sampaio and Saulo
Freitas, in addition to questions from the members of the MONAN CC,
Saulo Freitas announced the meeting agenda, citing the following items:

1.  General information and updates on financing;
2.  Proposal for the first community training course;
3.  Discussion of group activities planned for 2024 (Atmosphere,
    Surface, Ocean-Cryosphere, High Performance Processing and Data
    Assimilation);
4.  General discussion and next steps.

## Agenda 1 – General information and update on financing

Among the activities of
[DIMNT/INPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www3.cptec.inpe.br/dimnt/contatos/)
(Division of Numerical Modeling of the Earth System of INPE) at MONAN in
2023/2024, Saulo mentions the analysis for the choice of the dynamic
nucleus of MONAN, in addition to the visit of 2 researchers from
DIMNT/INPE on two occasions to
[NCAR](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://ncar.ucar.edu/)
(National Center for Atmospheric Research). He also comments on the
holding of an internal workshop on the use of MPAS/MONAN. It mentions
the production of technical reports (published in the [INPE
library](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br/area-conhecimento/biblioteca)
, also available on the MONAN website at https://monanadmin.github.io
and on the MONAN CC website at
[https://monanadmin.github.io/monan\_cc\_docs/relatorios/](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/relatorios/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp)
. In addition, it comments on the creation of the MONAN repository on
GitHub (at
[https://github.com/monanadmin](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/monanadmin)
), the installation of [MONAN
v0.1.0](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/monanadmin/monan)
on the INPE EGEON machine for use by DIMNT/INPE and by
[PGMET](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br/area-conhecimento/posgraduacao/met)
(Postgraduate Program in Meteorology) of INP and the production, on an
experimental basis, of MPAS/MONAN. Saulo Freitas comments on the
installation of continuous MONAN tests at DIMNT/INPE for daily
production, in test mode, with initial conditions from
[NCEP](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.weather.gov/ncep/)
(National Centers for Environmental Predictions).

Regarding the financial resources for MONAN, Saulo Freitas cites the
2024 Budget Bill (PLOA). For CPTEC, the 2023 budget was R$90,000.00
(ninety thousand reais) and the 2024 budget was R$900,000.00 (nine
hundred thousand reais). Saulo Freitas mentions that the resources will
be used to hire personnel for the development of MONAN software, in
addition to expanding the structure of CPTEC's DC. Gilvan Sampaio adds
that improvements to access to CPTEC's DC are also being planned, so
that the community can also access the new supercomputer. In the form of
colocation, it will be possible for other centers to use the physical
structure of CPTEC's DC to install other machines. Saulo Freitas adds
that
[CAPES](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/capes/pt-br)
(Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel) is
offering 5 post-doctoral scholarships to work with MONAN (funded at a
cost of R$500,000.00 – five hundred thousand reais, to be spent by
2026). Saulo Freitas comments that the MONAN project was presented by
INPE to the
[FNDCT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.finep.gov.br/a-finep-externo/fndct)
(National Fund for Scientific and Technological Development). This is an
acknowledgement by INPE and the institutions, which sent letters of
approval confirming their participation in the project. On this subject,
Gilvan Sampaio comments that the terms of reference are with
[MCTI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/mcti/pt-br)
(Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation) and that there is a
tendency for the project to be transformed into a public call instead of
a commission. Haroldo Fraga questions whether the public call meets the
value of the MONAN project. Gilvan Sampaio clarifies that the current
government's tendency is to transform all commissions into public calls.
From a legal standpoint, Saulo Freitas comments that they are working on
two MOUs (Memorandum of Understanding), one with
[NOAA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.noaa.gov/)
(National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration) and another with NCAR.
They also mention that there are 9 vacancies for DIMNT/INPE from the
INPE competition.

## Agenda 2 - Proposal for the first community training course

With the availability of resources, Saulo Freitas announces the holding
of a two-week in-person training course on the use of MONAN, to be held
in 2024. This initial course will serve to teach, firstly, the members
of the MONAN CC how to use the model. The course is expected to be held
in the city of São José dos Campos/SP. Then, Saulo Freitas invites
Gilson de Paula to present the budget proposal for the training course.

Gilson de Paula comments that a budget was drawn up, considering a
two-week event with estimated costs for daily rates, airfare, lodging,
food, etc. He comments on the prices of airfares on different airlines,
as well as different hotels in the city of São José dos Campos. In
total, Gilson de Paula comments that the cost would be approximately
R$400,000.00 (four hundred thousand reais), not counting international
flights. Saulo Freitas comments on the possibility of bringing in NOAA
and NCAR personnel to discuss critical aspects of MONAN's development,
in addition to being an opportunity to seal agreements between the
institutions. In the chat, Daniel Vila asks how MONAN's training is
linked to the training to be offered by the
[WMO](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://worldweather.wmo.int/pt/home.html)
(World Meteorological Organization). Daniel Vila asks if the courses
will be separate or if there will be some relationship between them.
Saulo comments that he is aware of the discussions regarding the WMO
course (which is a general course focused on Numerical Weather
Prediction) and comments that there is still no convergence between the
courses, but that this is a possibility. He also comments that the WMO
course is likely to take place around August 2024. Daniel Vila adds that
his idea is to join forces to facilitate the organization of both
courses, in addition to which the people who will come to the WMO
training will also take advantage of the opportunity to participate in
the MONAN training, which represents the future in terms of modeling (a
point for future discussion).

Enio Souza comments that a two-week training course is a bit excessive
and that one week is more objective. He adds that this course will be
suitable for people who are already beginning to model and they will
learn about MONAN. In addition, the month of July is a more complicated
period, as families set aside this time to be together (school
holidays).

## Agenda 3 - Discussion of group activities planned for 2024 (Atmosphere, Surface, Ocean-Cryosphere, High Performance Processing and Data Assimilation)

Following the agenda, Saulo Freitas invites Paulo Kubota to make a brief
presentation on the organization of his group (atmosphere) around the
developments of MONAN.

Paulo Kubota presents the work plan for 2024 of the numerical
atmospheric modeling group at DIMNT/INPE regarding the development of
MONAN. Paulo Kubota mentions that the work plan is focused on 2024, but
that some points may extend to 2025. He comments that the objective is
to improve knowledge of the interaction between all physical processes
that act on the atmosphere, on the different known scales. The
justification for the plan is to generate numerical products for very
short-term (nowcasting), short-term (weather forecasting), subseasonal
forecasting and climate forecasting, with high quality and competitive
with other weather forecasting centers. The objective is to develop and
implement new physical parameterizations that will be used on different
scales. The work methodology proposed by the group involves testing and
analyzing the results of the simulations and listing the deficiencies of
MONAN, relating them to the physical processes. Paulo Kubota also
mentions the research in the literature on the availability of new
mathematical formulations for parameterizing physical processes at
different scales, in addition to ensuring the improvement of MONAN
simulations with the new implementations and the creation of a database
with field observations, satellite estimates, and reanalysis data. Paulo
Kubota introduces his team and the specialties of each one and then
provides a detailed description of the group's activities. In the chat,
Haroldo Fraga comments on whether there will be any specific project on
reanalysis. Paulo Kubota responds that the database will consist of
reanalysis data on regions that do not have much conventional
observation data and that it will be used to verify MONAN.

Saulo Freitas thanks Paulo Kubota for the presentation and gives the
floor to João Gerd, who presents the activities of the DIMNT/INPE data
assimilation group for the development of MONAN.

João Gerd begins his speech by commenting on the activities that his
group is developing. He mentions that at the beginning of this year
(2024), the group began a discussion about activities internal to INPE,
but that these activities converge towards MONAN. João Gerd comments on
what has been done currently in data assimilation using
[BAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://journals.ametsoc.org/view/journals/wefo/31/5/waf-d-16-0062_1.xml)
(Brazilian Atmospheric Model) v2.2.1 at spatial resolution TQ0299L064
(with a resolution of approximately 45 km over the Equator and with 64
levels in hybrid vertical coordinates) and the
[IBIS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_Biosphere_Simulator)
(Integrated Biosphere Simulator) surface model and that, currently, this
activity includes bug fixes. He mentions that the
[GSI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://dtcenter.org/community-code/gridpoint-statistical-interpolation-gsi)
(Gridpoint Statistical Interpolation) system is being used for data
assimilation, in version 3.7, with the capacity to assimilate millions
of observations (including conventional and non-conventional
observations) and that new sensors are being studied for inclusion in
the process. He mentions the migration of computer codes to the
[GitHub](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/GAD-DIMNT-CPTEC)
platform , already thinking about alignment with MONAN developments and
the connection with NCEP development repositories. Among the activities,
he also mentions adjustments to the forecast error covariance matrix (B
matrix), a performance monitoring system for the Numerical Modeling and
Data Assimilation System (SMNA – the atmospheric data assimilation
system composed of the BAM model and the GSI system). He also comments
on the assimilation of surface data using temperature and atmospheric
humidity data for soil moisture adjustments). Regarding the
initialization of the MONAN model, he comments on the possibility of
adapting the SMNA analysis, and it is necessary to talk to NCEP staff to
understand their planning in terms of migration from one system to the
other (i.e., from the GSI system to the
[JEDI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.jcsda.org/jcsda-project-jedi)
system – Joint Effort for Data Assimilation Integration). He also
comments on current assimilation developments that serve the JEDI system
and the MPAS model. Mentions the covariance matrices (B and R – the
covariance matrices of the forecast and observation errors,
respectively), the H operator (forward model or observation operator)
and the observations. The latter two are highly dependent on the other
CPTEC divisions (the flow of observation data passes through the DISSM
and DIPTC divisions of CGCT/INPE). Comments on the need for people
working as observation operators, who are responsible for interpolating
the model to the observation point during the data assimilation process.
Regarding the implementation of the JEDI system in the MPAS model,
mentions its structure and talks about the
[OOPS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://jointcenterforsatellitedataassimilation-jedi-docs.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/inside/jedi-components/oops/introduction.html)
(Object-Oriented Prediction System), where the observation operators are
implemented. Mentions the [IODA
components.](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://jointcenterforsatellitedataassimilation-jedi-docs.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/inside/jedi-components/ioda/index.html)(Interface
for Observational Data Access) and the
[UFO](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://jointcenterforsatellitedataassimilation-jedi-docs.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/inside/jedi-components/ufo/index.html)
(Unified Forward Operator) for adjusting the flow of observations and
quality control. He also comments on the data assimilation methods
available in JEDI and the development of data assimilation monitoring
tools. João Gerd also comments on INPE's activities related to the
atmospheric ensemble numerical forecasting system, such as the
integration of subseasonal forecasting systems with the extended time
scale, among other activities. He concludes by mentioning the group's
members and collaborators.

Marcio Nirlando asks whether radar data for immediate forecasting
(nowcasting) is being considered in the data assimilation for MONAN.
João Gerd responds that it will be difficult to work on this subject in
2024, but that the team has experts. Saulo Freitas adds that there is a
delivery schedule for MONAN and that the first one considers the weather
forecast scale. He comments that, once this is done, the other scales
will be addressed – including the nowcasting scale and radar data
assimilation. Saulo Freitas takes the opportunity to invite the MONAN
community to participate in the developments, although the presentations
given reflect how INPE's divisions are organizing themselves to work
with MONAN in 2024. Saulo Freitas adds that the MONAN CC group must also
be called upon for the developments. Pedro Dias adds that some data
assimilation modules can also be advanced with the participation of the
CC members themselves. In the discussion, João Gerd emphasizes that it
is important to agree with NCAR how the transition from GSI to JEDI will
be carried out, so that efforts are well-dimensioned. Saulo Freitas
comments that there will be a visit to NCAR this year (2024) so ​​that
this can be made feasible, in addition to their visit to INPE. Haroldo
Fraga comments that the assimilation of radar data is also important for
the assimilation of rainfall and that he agrees with João Gerd about the
impossibility of doing this in 2024. Despite this, he comments that this
should be an activity to be carried out and that the way in which it
will be done is another discussion. He adds that an agenda item should
be the discussion of the assimilation of radar data within the scope of
the MONAN CC and that if this is not a goal, it will be difficult to
achieve.

Saulo Freitas gives the floor to Denis Eiras and Roberto Souto to talk
about planning the activities of the PAD (High Performance Processing)
group.

Denis Eiras begins his talk by mentioning the members of the PAD group.
He then mentions the activities carried out within the scope of the
development of the MONAN model, mentioning the extensive use of the
Scrum tool on the GitHub platform, which has been very good for the
group. He comments that one of the group's deliverables is an automation
package for executing the MONAN model on the Egeon machine, which is
available on the model's GitHub (for testing at 24 km horizontal
resolution). He also comments that this package is being adapted for the
[Santos Dumont
supercomputer](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://sdumont.lncc.br/machine.php)
at
[LNCC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/lncc/pt-br)
(National Laboratory for Scientific Computing) and that there are
ongoing tests at Egeon (with a daily simulation with the initial
condition from NCEP, in order to observe some aspects of the system's
use and characteristics). In this sense, Denis Eiras mentions that there
are some demands from CPTEC users (e.g., the inclusion of variables in
post-processing and an interpolation system external to the MPAS code).
In other activities, he mentions the development of an automatic code
review tool, which verifies the standardization of written codes. Denis
Eiras then hands the floor over to Roberto Souto.

Roberto Souto comments on the work carried out by LNCC in the scope of
the development of the MONAN model. He mentions the development of a
new, more modern and automated code assembly system, a tool for copying
the code structure from MPAS to another in MONAN. Roberto Souto also
mentions the use of the
[FPM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://fpm.fortran-lang.org/)
(Fortran Package Manager) tool to compile the model code, the use of
[Fypp](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://fypp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/fypp.html)
(Python Powered Fortran Metaprogramming); the separation of MPAS
auxiliary tools and libraries into distinct tools and libraries of the
model. He also mentions the new directory structure separating files by
functions (e.g., source files, configuration files, etc.). For the year
2024, he mentions the following activities: preparation of the setup for
simulations with 10 km horizontal resolution for the operation; final
implementation and more robust testing of the new code assembly system
(build setup and compilation of MONAN); container with test packages (at
a horizontal resolution of 100 km) for laptops and desktops (container
with the model for portability between machines); the implementation of
new physical parameterizations; the automation of code reviews by
integrating code into the repository (via GitHub actions); the
development of more efficient post-processing tools; and the holding of
a MONAN workshop. In the chat, Haroldo asks when the MONAN model
container will be available. Carlos Bastarz comments that, during the
course offered by Pedro Peixado on the MPAS model, they developed a
Singularity container for using the model, with all the tools and
libraries pre-installed
(https://github.com/pedrospeixoto/MPAS-BR/tree/master/local\_software/mpas-tools-br).
Denis Eira comments that this development is also being considered by
the PAD group. Francisco Junior asks Saulo Freitas and Roberto Souto
about which version of MPAS they are working on on the MONAN GitHub.
Roberto Souto responds by indicating that the MONAN version is a fork of
NCAR's MPAS and that there will be an integration with the MPAS-BR
version, maintained by Pedro Peixoto. Saulo Freitas adds that version
0.1 of MONAN is exactly version 8.0.1 of MPAS.

Saulo Freitas gives the floor to Ronald Buss to comment on some recent
activities of the oceans and cryosphere group.

Ronald Buss introduces his group and internal and external
collaborators. Next, Ronald Buss comments on some results presented at
recent congresses and conferences. He mentions that the results he
presented demonstrate the importance of certain processes in the
ocean-atmosphere interaction and that they are important to be
represented by models.

Ronald Buss gives the floor to Rosio Camayo to present the planning of
the activities of the oceans and cryosphere group in the context of the
development of the MONAN model. In his presentation, Rosio Camayo talks
about the activities related to the numerical simulations of the models
to be considered for the selection of the oceanic component of the MONAN
model. He mentions the partnership with
[LOF-COPPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://oceanica.ufrj.br/pesquisa/laboratorios/lof/)
/UFRJ (Physical Oceanography Laboratory of the Federal University of Rio
de Janeiro), in collaboration with researcher Afonso Paiva and the team,
and the elaboration of the work plan for this activity. He also mentions
the implementation of the LOF/UFRJ oceanic forecasting system to support
the MONAN program initiative. He comments on the elaboration of the work
plan for the definition of the oceanic component of MONAN and the
compilation of the MOM 6 model on the Egeon machine, with a structure
ready for comparison tests (collaboration between researchers [Emanuel
Giarolla](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/3849621156092026)
and [Manuel
Baptista](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://lattes.cnpq.br/6258057792238040)
). He adds that the main objective for the year 2024 is the process of
defining the minimum requirements for choosing and evaluating candidate
models for defining the oceanic component of MONAN, considering their
computational performance and best numerical representation of the main
physical processes, ocean dynamics, among other aspects. He concludes by
presenting the team and the partnership with collaborators internal and
external to INPE.

Saulo Freitas thanks Rosio Camayo and proposes leaving the last item on
the agenda for the next meeting (search for resources for the community)
and opening it up for general discussion. Among the topics to be
discussed, Saulo Freitas highlights the visits to NCAR with the
participation of external members of the MONAN CC. Saulo Freitas
comments that meetings should be held on the topics of data
assimilation, scientific computing, physics, ocean modeling, and
coupling. In addition, he also highlights the discussion of a strategic
project with the LNCC. Saulo Freitas comments on the functioning of the
subcommittee meetings. In his view, he comments that within the work
proposal of the MONAN CC, subcommittees were created, to which people
were designated as focal points to organize the activities on the topics
and that it is necessary to have more subcommittee meetings so that the
more technical issues can be discussed in more time and in more depth.
He comments that Pedro Dias also has this perception. He cites Data
Assimilation as an example, to which he attributes great priority in
holding meetings of this subcommittee, so that issues and difficulties
related to the topic can be discussed in greater depth, in addition to
planning activities. Regarding MONAN Training, he comments that he could
conduct a survey and send it to the MONAN CC to gather responses on the
best format and best time to conduct it, instead of discussing this
matter at this time. Saulo Freitas concludes by saying that discussing
meetings with NCAR and how to deal with more technical and in-depth
issues are more important at this time due to time constraints.

Pedro Dias comments that, among the priorities, for the subject of Data
Assimilation, he believes it is necessary to create a better established
culture on the subject in the weather and climate forecasting system,
and that it is important to bring more people into this discussion. He
comments that there are groups inside and outside Brazil and mentions
the participation of Yanina Skabar from Argentina, who has experience in
the subject. Pedro Dias also comments on more efficient access to the
Santos Dumont supercomputer. He mentions that a meeting has been
scheduled with Roberto Souto on this subject and that he will report on
the developments afterwards. In his speech, he also comments that the
structures available in Brazil and international cooperation should be
used to speed up this process and that he was impressed by the progress
of the Oceans and Cryosphere group. In his opinion, he comments that
they are doing well with this effort to compare the
[MOM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/mom-ocean-model/)
6 (Modular Ocean Model) and
[MPAS-Ocean](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://mpas-dev.github.io/ocean/ocean.html)
models , and other models, including the metrics for evaluating physics
and computational efficiency, which are aspects to be considered in the
selection process. He also mentions the articulation between model
development and observation as interesting, and highlights that in
Brazil it is necessary to better articulate this collaboration between
modeling and observation, which Ronald Buss drew a lot of attention to,
since model validation is part of MONAN's mission. Pedro Dias also
comments on the case of the Amazon (participation of Julia Cohen), in
particular, which worried him a lot, since there is no such bridge. He
mentions that some of the members of the MONAN CC are involved in these
initiatives, and that it is necessary to better articulate this
collaboration. At the end of his speech, Pedro Dias congratulates Ronald
Buss and his group for the way they are articulating these needs and
that they are an example for other parts of MONAN.

Ronald Buss thanks Pedro Dias and comments that it is also an incentive
for many who are starting out and mentions that many master's and
doctoral students are being included in the system. He also takes the
opportunity to thank DIMNT for providing the physical space and partners
such as Ricardo Camargo from
[IAG](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.iag.usp.br/)
/USP (Institute of Astronomy, Geophysics and Atmospheric Sciences).

Julia Cohen says she is satisfied, adds that she remembered the first
meetings of the MONAN CC, and congratulates the group she has been
working with. In her speech, she draws attention to what Pedro Dias said
about the Amazon centers. She comments on the creation of
[CISAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.ufpa.br/index.php/ultimas-noticias2/14545-cisam-recebe-adesao-de-nove-universidades-federais-e-se-afirma-como-iniciativa-multi-institucional)
(Integrated Center for Amazonian Sociobiodiversity) and that it has
around ten coordinators and that she participates in one of them. She
adds that this group still needs to present itself to the MONAN CC and
that she is available to answer questions on this subject. Saulo Freitas
comments that perhaps they can schedule a meeting with a smaller group
to see how MONAN can be presented to the CISAM group. Julia Cohen
comments that, in early April, she was also invited to participate in a
meeting between the Brazilian and Chinese academies of sciences on the
topic of regional modeling and that she will provide more details to the
MONAN CC.

Saulo Freitas thanks Julia Cohen and passes the word to Haroldo Fraga.

Haroldo Fraga congratulates Ronald Buss, Rosio Camayo and the Oceans and
Cryosphere group for their effort and work. He comments that, regardless
of the model chosen for the coupling with the MPAS, there is also the
expectation of the issue of the coupling and assimilation and that he
would like to hear comments from Luciano Pezzi and João Gerd regarding
how these articulations are going.

Luciano Pezzi thanks the oceans and cryosphere group for their
recognition and highlights the importance of Haroldo's comment and the
concern about the coupler, something he has already shared with some and
which is very similar to the issue of data assimilation. He comments
that he believes it is necessary to decide which direction to go. He
adds that to do so, it is necessary to know the tools better and also
understands that Carlos Renato is working on a line, but that
interactions with NCAR will be extremely valuable in guiding in this
direction. He comments that tests will be necessary to define which
direction to go. In addition, he comments that there are individual
coupler solutions as there are already more native solutions linked to
certain models and that this is a complex philosophical, mathematical
and computational challenge.

Haroldo Fraga comments that this is one point, that there are already
automated routines for coupling between models. He reports that they
have already coupled the wave model with the WRF atmospheric model, and
that in collaboration with Rosio Camayo, they have coupled this wave
model (which was already operational) with the
[BRAMS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://brams.cptec.inpe.br/)
model (Brazilian developments on the Regional Atmospheric Modeling
System). He also adds that they obtained good results with the coupling
with the BRAMS model. He comments that it is worth testing the coupling
with different models and not just doing the execution, and that there
is also the issue related to the cryosphere, since it is another time
scale. He adds that the time scales of the ocean and atmosphere are
fundamental in this exchange of information, that the ocean is very slow
and the atmosphere, very fast. He concludes by suggesting including this
issue so that it can also be analyzed in the evaluation of the couplers,
since sometimes, the coupling can generate differences in terms of
performance and not in terms of computation, but in terms of the
representativeness of the simulation.

Ronald Buss comments that one of the discussions that has been recurring
in his group is the issue of the coupler, although it has not been
verified in practice, but that the simplest thing is to create the
oceanic MPAS model and couple it with the atmosphere, counting on the
experience of colleagues from outside. He adds that something that has
been widely discussed in the group is the issue of the spatial
resolutions of the atmospheric and oceanic grids, which also needs to be
verified in practice.

João Gerd comments on data assimilation and how the group will deal with
it. The issue is exactly as Luciano Pezzi commented on the coupler. The
assimilation, in the first step, needs to define the model and from this
it will be possible to know the direction to be taken in the
assimilation. He comments that if the MOM 6 model were chosen today, the
JEDI system would be coupled. He adds that, if another model were
chosen, it would be necessary to check which one to use among the data
assimilation systems. João Gerda comments that, currently, the work
being developed with Clemente Tanajura is important for a group that has
more knowledge in atmospheric and surface assimilation and that this
experience will be important to help the ocean modeling group make a
more accurate decision.

Saulo Freitas gives an explanation of what was discussed at the meeting
and what still needs to be done in the coming months:

1.  There are a number of things to be resolved, but due to time
    constraints, it has not yet been possible to do so;
2.  Regarding the training and scientific workshop, a survey will be
    sent via email to the MONAN CC for responses until a convergence is
    reached and which will count on the collaboration of all those who
    receive the emails - in this item, it adds that support is needed
    for the organization of the event;
3.  Hold a meeting with NCAR - on this subject, Pedro Dias mentioned
    that he would soon be visiting NCAR and that he could meet with them
    in some way to make a schedule. Pedro Dias added that he could
    already start negotiating to schedule a series of technical meetings
    in Brazil, not only involving INPE, but also the MONAN CC community.
    He said that he could include people from the MONAN CC in this
    technical visit to try to organize technical meetings on issues in
    the areas of high-performance computing, data assimilation, ocean
    modeling and coupling, so that we would have an idea of ​​what
    decisions will be made in the first half of 2024. Pedro Dias said
    that he thinks it is important for the oceans and cryosphere group
    to have a response about its decision by August 2024;
4.  Schedule a meeting with Julia Cohen to discuss the Amazon center
    issue;
5.  regarding LNCC, Saulo Freitas comments that Pedro Dias will talk to
    Roberto Souto to find a way for MONAN to be a strategic program
    within LNCC, to facilitate community access to carry out simulations
    with MONAN;
6.  That the subcommittees are not functioning properly and that it will
    be necessary to resume subcommittee meetings. In fact, the
    subcommittee leaders were supposed to organize the meetings and that
    perhaps the MONAN CC would call specific meetings, with a schedule
    starting with data assimilation. Saulo Freitas comments that the
    entire group will be called, including Fabrício Härter, Haroldo
    Fraga and Pedro Dias, among other participants, to discuss in more
    depth the issue of data assimilation and which methods will be used.
    He adds that this meeting will benefit from the experience with NCAR
    to see NCAR's own planning;
7.  With the new funding resources, from a material point of view, our
    interaction with the national community has to be more frequent and,
    with this, we can make the community participate effectively, with
    conditions for participation and taking advantage of these resources
    that have emerged to bring our project to a successful conclusion.

Pedro Dias comments that he has the impression that it will be necessary
to conduct the meetings in a segmented manner, as it is very difficult
to bring everyone together. He adds that some topics are of interest to
a smaller group and that it is necessary to study in more detail the
issue of how to divide the groups so that contact is more efficient.

Haroldo Fraga comments on the issue of the agenda for groups, topics
such as data assimilation, the issue of assimilating radar, the issue of
couplers, the performance evaluation of the coupling between ocean and
atmosphere, in addition to including this evaluation as an agenda item.

Saulo Freitas comments that the oceans and cryosphere group presented
part of the planning with a schedule of activities and goals, but that
the issue of couplers will be raised as a specific point to be addressed
with more focus and depth.

Marcio Nirlando suggests, on behalf of
[CENSIPAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/censipam/pt-br)
, joint work with his group on the assimilation of radar data, since it
is not planned for the year 2024. In this sense, he comments that they
could contribute to this topic by doing parallel work with his team and
that they are receiving seven more servers from a competition last year.

In the chat, Yanina Skabar comments that a joint meeting with her, the
data assimilation group of the MONAN CC, would be interesting.

Ronald Buss comments that the coupling problem is not just an ocean and
atmosphere problem, but it is a computing problem and it is a subject
that demands dedicated people to work on it.

Saulo Freitas comments that Carlos Renato/INPE is doing a doctorate on
the subject of coupling. He comments that this is not a discussion just
about the cryosphere, ocean and atmosphere, but about the entire system,
which is a collective decision to be made. Saulo Freitas adds that the
only thing emphasized is that the issue of coupling has to be taken into
account, in order to be able to talk to the rest of the system. Pedro
Dias adds that coupling with surface hydrology is also a complex
subject.

Saulo Freitas said it was a productive meeting and ended by thanking
everyone for their participation.

## Actions for the Next Meeting

1.  Alignment between the organization of the 1st MONAN Workshop (for
    MONAN CC members) and the organization of the course to be offered
    by WMO at INPE;
2.  Organize a meeting of the data assimilation subcommittee to discuss
    radar data assimilation within the scope of the MONAN CC;
3.  Discussion on fundraising within the scope of the MONAN CC;
4.  Conducting a survey among MONAN CC members with suggestions on
    holding the 1st Workshop;
5.  Review of the list of actions listed by Saulo Freitas in "Agenda 3 -
    Discussion of activities planned for 2024"

??? example "Attachments"

    * [Recording of the MONAN Scientific Committee Meeting - March 5, 2024](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://youtu.be/6sAmptPZMOg?si%3DbTJSG9y5Kayf-IT_)
    * [Presentation by Saulo Freitas](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n02ed2eLiJOs_no3mwyLH2jMdUfKpsFD/view?usp%3Ddrive_link)
    * [Presentation Gilson Silva](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hqUOIYX9bmseRepJZqkfN8bh4drW5PBJ/view?usp%3Ddrive_link)
    * [Presentation by Paulo Kubota](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_05_marco_2024/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp)
    * [Presentation Denis Eiras](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/17542OQHaNbCEGlz-YO83IaLQZ0hRTgnj/view?usp%3Ddrive_link)
    * [Presentation by Roberto Souto](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_05_marco_2024/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp)
    * [Presentation by João Gerd](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_05_marco_2024/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp)
    * [Presentation Ronald Buss](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MdxdqfN1tVA_moM5o_fFl4zbKrWcTTRg/view?usp%3Ddrive_link)
    * [Presentation Rosio Camayo](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/15kh9m_DuJyEsImgAgA-N8JXLKVJdwSL3/view?usp%3Ddrive_link)
