
!!! warning "AI-Translated Page"

      This page was translated using artificial intelligence (AI). The content may contain inaccuracies or misinterpretations. For critical or official use, please consult the site [administrator](mailto:mcstu.inpe@gmail.com) to confirm the information.


# August 30, 2021

## MINUTES 003/2021 - Revision 002

![type:video](https://youtube.com/embed/vNnDBr3I6f4)

Meeting of the Scientific Committee of the Unified Earth System
Community Model. At 2:00 pm on August 30, 2021, representatives of INPE
(National Institute for Space Research), INMET (National Institute of
Meteorology), UFCG (Federal University of Campina Grande), CENSIPAM
(Management and Operational Center for the Amazon Protection System),
ITA (Technological Institute of Aeronautics), INPA (National Institute
for Amazon Research), UFSM (Federal University of Santa Maria), USP
(University of São Paulo), LNCC (National Laboratory for Scientific
Computing), UFMS (Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul), UFPA
(Federal University of Pará), UFRJ (Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro), MB (Brazilian Navy), FAB (Brazilian Air Force) and EB
(Brazilian Army) met virtually with the aim of discussing and continuing
the work of the Committee. Scientific Report of the Community Model of
the Unified Earth System (MCSTU). These minutes record the memory of the
meeting and gather the information inserted in the chat, such as links
and information relevant to the discussions held. Following the opening
of the meeting, carried out by Saulo Freitas, this document is oriented
according to the guidelines established by Saulo Freitas during his
presentation.

## Opening

Saulo Freitas thanks all participants for attending the 4th Meeting of
the Scientific Committee (CC) of the MCSTU, whose mission is to guide
actions for the development of a community model of the Earth system. He
comments that the MCSTU is a path to take the country to a new level of
quality for weather, climate and environmental forecasts. The challenge
is great and the expectation is that, with adequate resources, a
functional model will be obtained that surpasses the forecasting
capacity of the current models in use in the country within 5 to 10
years. Saulo Freitas then summarizes the agenda to be addressed at the
meeting: a) introduction of new members and preliminary discussion of
issues from the last meeting; b) process of choosing the definitive name
of the community model of the unified Earth system; c) speech by the
Coordinator of the CGCT (General Coordination of Earth Sciences) of
INPE; d) review of the leading members of the subgroups and start of
prospecting and reporting activities; e) report of meetings of the PAD
(High Performance Processing) subgroup; f) brief tribute to Professor
Saulo [Rabello Maciel de
Barros](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ime.usp.br/memorial-saulo-barros/)
from
[IME](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ime.usp.br/)
(Institute of Mathematics and Statistics) of USP and collaborating
researcher at
[CPTEC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.cptec.inpe.br/)
(Center for Weather Forecasting and Climate Studies) of INPE (deceased
on 07/11/2021).

Saulo Freitas announces the new members of the CC of the MCSTU: Julia
Clarinda Paiva Cohen/UFPA, Afonso de Moraes Paiva/UFRJ, Ricardo de
Camargo/USP, Luciano Ponzi Pezzi/INPE, Celso Mendes/INPE, Hélio Abreu
Nogueira/FAB and Luiz Claudio Oliveira de Andrade/EB. Then, he gives the
floor to the new members to introduce themselves.

Julia Cohen thanks the invitation and reinforces the expectation of
collaboration. Saulo Barros thanks and adds that local collaborations
will be discussed and over time it will become clearer how the
collaborations will be carried out.

Afonso Paiva greets all members and says that one of his motivations is
to collaborate with everyone. He mentions that he works with ocean
modeling and hopes to be able to collaborate with the development of
MCSTU.

Ricardo Camargo thanks the invitation, comments on his experience with
atmospheric and coupled modeling and on his expectations in
collaborating with MCSTU.

Celso Mendes introduces himself, mentions that he is a retired civil
servant, collaborator in a postgraduate course in modeling and thanks
for the invitation.

Luciano Pezzi is grateful for the invitation, mentioning that he has
experience with oceanic and atmospheric models, regional and coupled
systems.

## Agenda 1 - Review of Actions Defined in the Previous Meeting

Saulo Freitas reviews the actions of the last meeting, which are already
underway. He mentions the request made for the preparation of an
introductory letter to the MCSTU, which can be used by the leaders of
the subgroups to present the model and form collaboration networks. He
mentions the creation of a homepage to publicize the MCSTU and mentions
that he is looking for resources to do this. He comments on the
invitation to
[FUNCEME](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.funceme.br/)
(Cearence Foundation for Meteorology and Water Resources) for
collaboration in the development of the hydrology component of the
MCSTU. Another subject mentioned is the management of software projects,
given the complexity of the MCSTU.

## Agenda 2 - Poll to Define the Name of the Community Model

Saulo Freitas introduces a poll to define the name of the MCSTU (whose
current name and acronym are provisional). He comments that the idea is
to conduct a poll in which all members can suggest names, which will
later be put to a vote. All suggestions should be sent by email to
Fabielle Mota (fabielle.mota at inpe.br), without copying to other
people, with the following information: the name of the model in
Portuguese and in English, the acronym, and the reasoning justifying why
the chosen name is important to give a lasting brand to the community
model. In a future meeting, Fabielle Mota will present the suggestions
(without citing the authors) to the MCSTU CC, from which the choice will
be made.

## Agenda 3 - Speech by the CGCT/INPE Coordinator

Saulo Freitas invites Gilvan Sampaio and Viviane Campos to talk about
the actions for financing the community model and its applications, as
well as the formalization and assignment of the functions of the MCSTU
CC.

Gilvan Sampaio thanks the invitation and summarizes the history of the
latest actions related to the establishment of the MCSTU. He reports
that he was in Brasilia on 3 occasions in July and August. There were
meetings with several secretaries and 3 proposal letters were requested
for the
[FNDCT](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.finep.gov.br/a-finep-externo/fndct)
(National Fund for Scientific and Technological Development): one for
the BIG program (Georeferenced Information Base), another for the
Biomas-BR program and another for the MCSTU (the letters were signed by
Saulo Freitas, Pedro Dias and Gilvan Sampaio). Once the proposal for the
MCSTU was authorized, Saulo Freitas, Pedro Dias and Gilvan Sampaio
worked to draft and submit the proposal, which was processed. The group
was asked to add the supercomputing infrastructure to the proposal. This
was done and a revision of the proposal was sent with the title
"Renovation of the INPE supercomputing infrastructure and its
application to meet the growing demands of Brazilian society for better
forecasts, monitoring of weather, climate and the environment". The
proposal was very well received and Gilvan Sampaio believes that it is
very likely that the funds will be obtained via FNDCT, via
[FINEP](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.finep.gov.br/)
and the resources should be managed by the support foundation,
[FUNCATE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.funcate.org.br/pt/)
. He mentions that approximately R$ 7 million per year were requested
for a period of 3 years for the MCSTU. The amount consists of
scholarships, payments to legal entities and consultancy. At the moment,
the FNDCT's response is awaited, but he emphasizes optimism regarding
the proposal based on all the negotiations. He mentions that the
construction of the model justifies the updating of the infrastructure
and vice versa. He announces that the quota of scholarships from the
INPE
[PCI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.inpe.br/pci/)
program (Institutional Training Program) was divided between the 3
programs, and with this, at this time, it was possible to launch 5
scholarships directly related to the MCSTU. He adds that there will also
be a conversation with
[FAPESP](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://fapesp.br/)
(São Paulo State Research Support Foundation) about the MCSTU. In
meetings with the
[MCTI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/mcti/pt-br)
(Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation), with Secretary Marcelo
Marcos Morales, it was requested that an ordinance be issued by the MCTI
informing what the community model is, how it is being organized, among
other information. In parallel, an ordinance by INPE will also be
issued. These two ordinances will serve to formalize the functions of
the CC of the MCSTU and, within the scope of INPE, the ordinance should
be issued more quickly. Viviane Campos has already drafted this
ordinance to officially invite the members of the CC of the MCSTU.

Saulo Freitas asked Gilvan Sampaio to clarify some more aspects of the
leadership of the CC of MCSTU and the status of MCSTU as an INPE
program. Gilvan Sampaio responded that MCSTU was conceived as a program
associated with INPE, within which there may be several projects, but
that despite this, it is also part of MCTI. Within the scope of MCTI,
the CC of MCSTU should be led by Saulo Freitas and Pedro Dias. Within
the scope of INPE, it should be an active employee, in this case Saulo
Freitas, and Pedro Dias acts as a collaborator, which does not change
his status in the coordination of the CC of MCSTU.

Saulo Freitas adds that, for legal reasons, the director of INPE cannot
appoint or assign functions to Pedro Dias, and for this reason, Pedro
Dias has the status of collaborator within INPE. Within MCTI, both
researchers have the same status as coordinators.

Gilvan Sampaio adds that, regarding the financing actions, the
scholarships can be distributed throughout Brazil, as decided by the
MCSTU. He says that it is necessary to establish an official acronym for
the program and that at the next meeting he would like to invite someone
from the MCTI to participate in the meeting of the MCSTU CC.

Saulo Freitas thanks Gilvan Sampaio for the information and
clarifications and gives the floor to the members of the MCSTU CC for
comments and suggestions.

Enio Souza argues that, because MCSTU is an MCTI program, there is a
transversality between several ministries ( [Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and
Supply](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/agricultura/pt-br)
on behalf of
[INMET](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.inmet.gov.br/)
; [Ministry of
Defense](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/defesa/pt-br)
on behalf of the agencies involved; [Ministry of
Education](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/mec/pt-br)
on behalf of the universities, among others) and that this gives greater
robustness to MCSTU.

Gilvan Sampaio adds that this transversality between the ministries was
highlighted in the meetings with the MCTI. He mentions that in the
construction of the SNM (National Meteorological System), there will be
a decree, with the appointment of a management committee (formed by
[INPE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/inpe/pt-br)
,
[INMET](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://portal.inmet.gov.br/)
and
[CENSIPAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/defesa/pt-br/assuntos/censipam)
), but that the coordination will be in the
[SAE](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gov.br/planalto/pt-br/assuntos/assuntos-estrategicos/conheca-a-sae)
(Special Secretariat for Strategic Affairs of the Presidency of the
Republic). In the construction of the SNM, the MCSTU will be very
important. He adds that the idea of ​​transversality is being emphasized
in all negotiations.

Luciano Pezzi questions whether the 3-year budget, with an amount of
R$21 million, is only for the MCSTU, and how the update of the computing
infrastructure will be addressed.

Gilvan Sampaio answers affirmatively and adds that the total budget
requested is R$200 million, including the machine to make the model, the
updating of the infrastructure (air conditioning, electrical energy,
etc.). He informs that associated with this there is also the project to
implement a first phase of a photovoltaic power generation plant in
Cachoeira Paulista/SP, in addition to human resources.

Saulo Freitas adds that the focus of this R$7 million annual resource
should be to finance the activities of the CC subgroups of the MCSTU for
the development of the model throughout the country. External groups
should be prioritized so that they have working conditions and
contribute effectively to the development of the project.

Ronald Buss adds that this will be the first time that ocean and
atmospheric numerical modeling will be worked on in a transversal manner
within the MCTI. He comments on the lack of interaction between the MCTI
sectors that work with ocean numerical modeling and the
[CGOA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.in.gov.br/en/web/dou/-/portaria-mcti-n-4.719-de-5-de-maio-de-2021-318198749)
(General Coordination of Science for the Ocean, Antarctica and
Geosciences) of the MCTI. An example of this is the
[REMO](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.rederemo.org/)
project , which is supported independently of the MCTI. He concludes
that it is important to keep this type of situation in mind in order to
avoid cooperation problems in the future.

## Agenda 4 - Definition of Members of the Committee to Collect and Document the Requirements, Demands and Counterparts of the Unified Earth System Model

Saulo Freitas reinforces the idea of ​​the leaders of the subgroups of the
CC of the MCSTU, reminding them who the members of the committees are,
the counterparts and the demands. He adds that all the material
generated by the subgroups will be organized by the CC of the MCSTU to
generate white papers. Each appointed member will be the focal point of
the respective theme and is expected to interact with the other partners
of the national and international community. The members must document
and bring for discussion at the CC of the MCSTU:

-   Requirements: in terms of physics, dynamics, computational grid,
    coupling technologies, PAD aspects, Data Assimilation methods, etc.;
-   Demands: applications, problems to be addressed, performance,
    accuracy, etc.;
-   Counterparts: in particular, what the Brazilian community can offer
    to international partners and institutions;
-   Infrastructure: resources for computing equipment and observation of
    the Earth system, data reception and processing, personnel, etc.

The material produced will be the basis of the model project to be
forwarded to the competent sectors.

The members of the MCSTU CC appointed to the subgroups are:

-   Integrated Modeling System: Pedro Dias/USP

-   Atmosphere: Saulo Freitas/INPE

-   Continental Surface and Soils: Antonio Manzi/INPE

-   Ocean and Continental and Maritime Ice: Ronald Buss/INPE

-   Space Weather: Joaquim Costa/INPE

-   High Performance Processing and Code Quality: Luiz Flávio
    Rodrigues/INPE

-   Earth System Data Assimilation: João Gerd/INPE

-   Advanced Data Assimilation Methods and Artificial Intelligence
    Applications: Haroldo Campos Velho/INPE

-   Pre- and Post-processing Methods for Weather and Climate Forecasts:
    Caio Coelho/INPE and Carlos Bastarz/INPE

-   Surface and Subsurface Hydrology: FUNCEME/
    [IPH](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ufrgs.br/iph/)
    (Hydraulic Research Institute) to be defined

-   Organization of Demands and Perspectives of Universities and
    Research Institutes:

    -   Northeast: Enio Souza/UFCG
    -   North: Julia Cohen/UFPA
    -   Southeast: Márcia Yamasoe/USP
    -   South: Otavio Acevedo/UFSM
    -   Midwest: Vinicius Capistrano/UFMS
    -   CENSIPAM: Ivan Saraiva
    -   INMET: Franciso Quixaba

-   Organization of the Demands and Perspectives of the Armed Forces:

    -   Brazilian Navy: Flávia Rodrigues
    -   Brazilian Air Force: Hélio Abreu Nogueira
    -   Brazilian Army: Luiz Claudio Oliveira de Andrade

Saulo Freitas and Pedro Dias request that the subgroups begin to
organize themselves and produce preliminary reports on how they are
organizing and structuring the development of their themes. For the next
meeting, Saulo Freitas and Pedro Dias will present what they expect for
the atmospheric component, in terms of dynamic and physical cores. They
also request that, for the next meeting, the initial organizational
plans and perspectives with
[JEDI](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.jcsda.org/jcsda-project-jedi)
(Joint Effort for Data Assimilation Integration) for Earth System Data
Assimilation (João Gerd/INPE) be presented.

## Agenda 5 - Partnerships with PAS Companies - Report of Meetings with NEC and NVIDIA

Saulo Freitas comments on the meetings already held on the topic of High
Performance Processing and Software Quality (Luiz Flávio
Rodrigues/INPE). He requests that Luiz Flávio present his report on the
meetings held.

Luiz Flávio presents a summary of the actions taken to create the code
standardization document. He comments that, initially, this document is
being written in
[Markdown](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/)
language and that it is being versioned on the [MCSTU Project Portal
using
the](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://projetos.cptec.inpe.br/projects/mcstu)
[Subversion](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://subversion.apache.org/)
version control system (provisionally, since the goal is to use the
[Git](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://git-scm.com/)
version control system to be installed within the INPE computing
environment). The document deals with software quality standards. He
also mentions that forums were created on the MCSTU Project Portal to
discuss the following topics: coding standards, testing methodology,
development methods, and agile development management.

Luiz Flávio continues his presentation by reporting on meetings held
with private sector companies
[NEC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.nec.com/en/global/solutions/hpc/success_stories/Climate_and_Weather.html?)
,
[IBM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ibm.com/weather)
and
[NVIDIA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/tag/climate-weather-ocean-modeling/)
. In addition to selling their products, these companies also provide
PAD services. They are interested in forming partnerships that allow
them to improve their products and services. In this sense, within the
scope of the MCSTU, it is advantageous for the developments to be
carried out due to the expertise developed by them. NVIDIA is a company
that develops GPUs (Graphics Processor Units), a type of graphics
co-processor, and it was responsible for porting the
[MPAS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://mpas-dev.github.io/)
(Model for Prediction Across Scales) model to IBM (the [IBM
GRAF](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ibm.com/case-studies/ibm-graf-from-the-weather-company)
). NVIDIA made two presentations about its developments and, in the
first, Luiz Flávio highlights the pragmatism that NVIDIA had in not
modifying the code too much, in order to reduce the impact of these
changes on the researcher who developed it. In the second presentation
by NVIDIA, examples were presented of the work done by the company on
the dynamic core of the MPAS model and other models with which they
worked. Regarding this presentation, Luiz Flávio highlights the
differences between the examples of the original codes and the ported
codes, with the use of
[OpenACC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.openacc.org/)
directives , so that the latter can be executed on GPU. In the examples
presented (e.g.,
[ICON](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.dwd.de/EN/research/weatherforecasting/num_modelling/01_num_weather_prediction_modells/icon_description.html)
, MPAS,
[FV3](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/fv3/)
,
[IFS](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/en/publications/ifs-documentation)
), the gains obtained are consistent (i.e., they can be observed in
almost all the models worked on). Regarding the portability of the model
codes to GPUs, Luiz Flávio concludes by saying that it is currently much
simpler to make this transition. Regarding NEC's presentation, Luiz
Flávio comments that the use of the new system developed by the company,
[TSUBASA](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.nec.com/en/global/solutions/hpc/sx/vector_engine.html)
(pluggable vector processing boards), which is a vector system, was
presented, as well as the architectures of the NEC SX3 (1994-1998), SX4
(1998-2004) and SX6 (2004-2007), previously used by CPTEC before the
transition to massively parallel machines, Sun cluster (2007-2010) and
Cray XE6 (2010-2021) and XC50 (2018-)
[(1)](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_30_agosto_2021/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp#1)
,
[(2)](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_30_agosto_2021/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp#2)
,
[(3)](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_30_agosto_2021/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp#3)
,
[(4)](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_30_agosto_2021/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp#4)
,
[(5)](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_30_agosto_2021/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp#5)
,
[(6)](https://monanadmin-github-io.translate.goog/monan_cc_docs/ata_cc_30_agosto_2021/?_x_tr_sl=pt&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=pt-BR&_x_tr_pto=wapp#6)
. Luiz Flávio comments that NEC carried out tests with the
[BAM](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://journals.ametsoc.org/view/journals/wefo/31/5/waf-d-16-0062_1.xml)
(Brazilian Atmospheric Model) models from CPTEC and
[WRF](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.mmm.ucar.edu/weather-research-and-forecasting-model)(Weather
Research and Forecasting model), ported for use with TSUBASA boards,
with which they obtained performance gains, which demonstrates the
boards' ability to improve the performance of numerical models for
weather and climate forecasting. Regarding the MPAS model, the company
reported that it obtained gains of up to 2 times in the model's
performance. Regarding the FV3 model, tests with TSUBASA boards are
under development. Luiz Flávio emphasizes that the most important
factor, in relation to NEC's solution, is the reduction in electricity
consumption with the use of TSUBASA boards (significant reduction in the
Watts/Flop ratio).

Luiz Flávio concludes the summary of the presentations by the PAD
companies by stating that the dynamic cores and models discussed present
good portability to different architectures (GPU), mainly due to the use
of OpenACC. NEC's solution is interesting, as it opens the prospect of
using a hybrid architecture machine, which should be considered in
future acquisitions. The results presented by the companies show that
there are significant improvements in the performance of the models
using GPUs, in relation to the massively parallel versions of the
models. He adds that it is important to have access to the architectures
to validate the tests performed by the companies and to perform own
tests with the dynamic cores to be selected for the MCSTU. He reports
that Dell offered access to some models of machines that it manufactures
and that it is healthy to keep the manufacturing companies close, in
continuous contact with the MCSTU PAD subgroup, both for code
development and for the exchange of information.

Saulo Freitas thanks Luiz Flavio for the presentation and asks about the
average time that NVIDIA estimated to port the codes currently in use to
GPUs, using the OpenACC directives.

Luiz Flávio, Pedro Dias and Saulo Freitas comment that, considering a
cloud microphysics code with approximately 10,000 lines, the estimate is
approximately 2 months. In this regard, the solution presented by NVIDIA
still allows the code to be executed on massively parallel machines.
Luiz Flávio adds that in the case of the BAM model, many parts of the
model are written in pure Fortran language, which would facilitate
portability, in addition to allowing these parts of the code to also be
optimized. He also comments that some physics that NVIDIA ported for use
with GPUs are also physics used by the model, which would already
advance part of the work. Saulo Freitas adds that it is necessary to
continue developing the models currently in use and acquire the
necessary know-how on how to make this portability.

Saulo Freitas questions, within the scope of MCSTU, how a type of PAD
support can be organized to support universities so that they can make
use of these technologies.

Luiz Flávio argues that it is no longer an absolute truth to say that
the academic environment is distant from PAD activities. He cites as an
example the students of Professor [Álvaro Luiz
Fazenda](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.somos.unifesp.br/professor/alvaro-luiz-fazenda)
/UNIFESP who have collaborated in some PAD activities at the center.
Another aspect is the fact that the manufacturers of the machines are
also interested in training PAD specialists. The MCSTU can be a channel
between INPE and the universities, to train personnel in this area.

Pedro Dias comments on the familiarity with the use of GPUs. Nowadays,
it is more common than before, but mainly in the area of ​​Computer
Science. In other areas, such as Meteorology and Oceanography, it is
more difficult to find many people familiar with the subject. At the
[IAG](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.iag.usp.br/)
, an effort is being made to offer summer courses as complementary
training for students. He encourages members of the MCSTU CC to expose
their students to these new technologies and more modern processing
architectures. He also comments on the need to have introductory
material, seminars and classes on new technologies that can be
distributed among the members of the MCSTU CC.

Luiz Flávio comments that, to a large extent, the current ease of
porting codes is due to the evolution of compilers. He adds that it will
be even more important for computer scientists to be closer to the
scientists who develop the dynamics and physics of the models. This is
necessary so that the initial developments are already prepared, for
example, for the data structures appropriate to the computer
architectures to be used.

Haroldo Campos agrees with Luiz Flávio and cites the example, within the
scope of software engineering and project quality, of the telemetry
software for satellite control developed by
[LAC](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.lac.inpe.br/)
. He also mentions the need for everyone to be able to participate in
practical introductory mini-courses so that people can be informed about
how to work in this type of programming. He recommends organizing a
mini-course on heterogeneous computing.

Saulo Freitas agrees with Haroldo Campos and mentions the importance of
organizing mobile workshops with PAD groups to provide on-site training
and help solve problems. The premise is to allow the entire community to
work on the MCSTU code. He adds that NVIDIA has committed to
benchmarking the atmospheric BAM model (with prescribed ocean and ice),
deterministic with 10 km horizontal resolution and with a uniform grid,
for 10 days of forecasting, considering a 2-hour processing window. This
benchmark, to be released in October 2021, will help understand what
type of machine will be needed to carry out the MCSTU.

Pedro Dias comments that the interaction between computer scientists and
model scientists must be two-way, ie, it is important that model
scientists also communicate and explain how the parts of the model
should communicate (in terms of the interactions between the different
physical components of the Earth system).

Gilvan Sampaio comments that the MCSTU will be publicized and that there
should be a seminar in the 2nd half of October 2021 at INPE.

Luciano Pezzi comments that it is essential for the PAD and applications
groups to come together. It is essential to have the technical
perception of the PAD team about what is feasible and what is possible
to do with ocean modeling. Any decision to be made must consider what is
already under development. Regarding couplers, there are also several
and they are computational bottlenecks, he concludes that it is
important to discuss them.

Pedro Dias argues that the topic of couplers is at the top of the list
and is an important topic. It is necessary to identify who is interested
in this subject and invite them to discuss it. Practical and theoretical
issues are just as important, and time scales are an example of this. He
mentions that to date, the
[ECMWF](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.ecmwf.int/)
has not yet entered the non-hydrostatic modeling line, most likely due
to coupling processes.

Haroldo Campos adds that the coupler is not only useful for the
atmospheric and oceanic model, but also for the hydrological model.

Luiz Flavio informs that NVIDIA has ported MOM4 to GPU and therefore
their experience also involves ocean models.

Enio Bueno comments that, regarding hybrid programming, it is necessary
to think about the physics of the process. He does not believe that the
model scientist should spend a lot of time learning to program on GPU,
if the physics is not yet well defined and that it is necessary to spend
more time to form the critical mass that will think about the physical
problems. He concludes by saying that the technical problem of computing
should be solved by computer scientists.

Luiz Flavio argues by citing the concept of pair programming
(programming in pairs, between researcher and programmer). It is a
paradigm shift in the numerical modeling community of the Earth system,
which has a specific way of working. Agile methods can be adapted to
this way of working.

## Agenda 6 - Brief Tribute to Professor Saulo Rabello Maciel de Barros

Pedro Dias, Pedro Peixoto, Enio Bueno, Paulo Kubota, Luiz Flávio and
Saulo Freitas share their life and professional experiences with
Professor Saulo Barros and pay tribute to his memory and legacy.

## Actions for the Next Meeting

1.  Poll to vote on the name of the unified earth system community
    model;
2.  Presentation of the perspectives for the atmospheric component of
    MCSTU (Saulo Freitas and Pedro Dias);
3.  Presentation of perspectives for Earth System Data Assimilation with
    JEDI (João Gerd);
4.  Brief communication from the other members of the MCSTU CC about the
    actions to organize the subgroups.

??? example "References"

    1.  <span id="1"></span>INPE. News (SJC, 03/17/2006) - INPE supercomputer serves the country's scientific community [http://www.inpe.br/noticias/noticia.php?Cod\_Noticia=589](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.inpe.br/noticias/noticia.php?Cod_Noticia%3D589)
    2.  <span id="2"></span>INPE. News (SJC, 01/16/2007) - INPE purchases equipment with an eye on the next generation of CPTEC supercomputer. 2007. [http://www.inpe.br/urc/noticias/noticia.php?Cod\_Noticia=938](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.inpe.br/urc/noticias/noticia.php?Cod_Noticia%3D938)
    3.  <span id="3"></span>CPTEC. History - Supercomputers - CPTEC/INPE. 2010. [https://www.cptec.inpe.br/supercomputador/historico.php](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://www.cptec.inpe.br/supercomputador/historico.php)
    4.  <span id="4"></span>MENDES, C.; STEPHANY, S. Programming of Massively Parallel Systems. CAP Applied Computing - INPE. 2018. [http://www.lac.inpe.br/~celso/cap396-2018/AULAS/Aula-2.pdf](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.lac.inpe.br/~celso/cap396-2018/AULAS/Aula-2.pdf)
    5.  <span id="5"></span>SOUZA, CR Evaluation of advanced MPI communication techniques in the execution of the BRAMS model. 2018. 108 p. IBI: &lt;8JMKD3MGP3W34R/3R6QKR8&gt;. (sid.inpe.br/mtc-m21c/2018/05.25.12.46-TDI). Dissertation (Master in Applied Computing) - National Institute for Space Research (INPE), São José dos Campos, 2018. Available at: [http://urlib.net/rep/8JMKD3MGP3W34R/3R6QKR8](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://urlib.net/rep/8JMKD3MGP3W34R/3R6QKR8)
    6.  <span id="6"></span>STEPHANY, S. A brief history of supercomputing. CAP - Applied Computing - INPE. 2021. [http://www.lac.inpe.br/~stephan/CAP-372/super2021k-linux.pdf](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=http://www.lac.inpe.br/~stephan/CAP-372/super2021k-linux.pdf)

??? example "Attachments"

    * [Slides Saulo Freitas](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cnJqUU9Fl1GyXqVH6cJmDgVqV6YHNhQt/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Minutes of the MONAN Scientific Committee Meeting - August 30, 2021](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/13ULRoiMerv2UkZbcZBlpWI3FDbOO5Asc/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Recording of the MONAN Scientific Committee Meeting - August 30, 2021](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://youtu.be/vNnDBr3I6f4)
    * [Introductory Letter About MONAN](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gl-NJTIrU91vkusgdr92iThYB_YKdrCX/edit?usp%3Dsharing%26ouid%3D106538284579177679646%26rtpof%3Dtrue%26sd%3Dtrue)
    * [Presentation by Luiz Flavio](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EE8XAdQw5klZgGR3FAnBXJOnzYh1Nc20/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Patrick Laloyaux Material](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L5wsurPSCsxV6j2DqY3jzjGOxNw-XVCh/view?usp%3Dsharing)
    * [Stan Posey Material](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=pt&tl=en&hl=pt-BR&client=webapp&u=https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iykr95Ve3MX0tpfh4v0ld3BJ_cFWPnBf/view?usp%3Dsharing)

